.\" gcc-cube(1) - Cubic-C Compiler
.\" Part of the CS4DTRP Reference Implementation
.\" Man page format. View with: man ./gcc-cube.1
.\"
.TH GCC-CUBE 1 "1 April 2026" "CS4DTRP Tools" "Cubic-C Compiler"
.SH NAME
gcc-cube \- compile Cubic-C source files with 4-corner temporal awareness
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcc-cube
[\fB\-O4\fR]
[\fB\-\-refute-academia\fR]
[\fB\-\-ignore-greenwich\fR]
[\fB\-\-pedantic-cubic\fR]
[\fB\-\-corner-affinity\fR=\fICORNER\fR]
[\fB\-\-simultaneous-threads\fR=\fI4\fR]
[\fB\-\-degauss-on-error\fR]
[\fB\-W\fR\fIwarning\fR]
.IR file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gcc-cube
is the reference compiler for Cubic-C, an extension of ISO
C11 that corrects the fundamental temporal deficiencies of
the C programming language.  Standard C assumes sequential
execution within a single temporal frame.  This is Educated
Stupid.
.B gcc-cube
compiles code for simultaneous execution across all four
temporal corners (Sunup, Midday, Sundown, Midnight) as
specified in RFC 4444 (CS4DTRP).
.PP
.B gcc-cube
is not a fork of GCC.  It is a correction.  GCC produces
binaries that execute in one corner.
.B gcc-cube
produces binaries that execute in four corners simultaneously.
The additional three corners of execution are not "threads"
or "processes" \(em they are ontological states that have always
existed but were suppressed by the linear compilation model.
.PP
.B gcc-cube
requires that all translation units satisfy the following
Cubic invariants:
.TP
.B Four entry points
The linker expects
.BR main_sunup() ,
.BR main_midday() ,
.BR main_sundown() ,
and
.BR main_midnight() .
A binary with fewer than four entry points is Mentally
Murdered at link-time with:
.RS
.PP
.nf
ld-cube: fatal error: CUBELESS_BINARY: only N of 4
  entry points found.  A binary with 1 entry point is
  a 1-corner trap.  Missing corners: [list]
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B No <time.h>
Any translation unit that includes
.B <time.h>
will fail compilation with:
.RS
.PP
.nf
error: LINEAR AGGRESSION DETECTED: <time.h> found.
  Word Animals not permitted in this translation unit.
  struct tm is a 1-corner data structure masquerading
  as temporal completeness.
  Use <cubic_simultaneity.h> instead.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B No sequential corner assignment
Assigning to corner fields outside a
.B __simultaneous_block
is a compile-time error:
.RS
.PP
.nf
error: sequential corner assignment detected at
  line 47.  The semicolons between assignments
  introduce implicit temporal boundaries, producing
  a FIFTH_CORNER_ASSERTED fault.  Wrap in
  __simultaneous_block { }.
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Optimisation Levels
.TP
.B \-O0
No optimisation.  Code executes linearly.  Not recommended.
Produces Educated Stupid binaries that will pass SIMACK only
by accident.
.TP
.B \-O1
.B PROHIBITED.
Attempting to pass
.B \-O1
produces a compile-time error:
.RS
.PP
.nf
fatal error: IMMEDIATE_BRAIN_ROT_ERROR: Linear
  optimisation is Mental Murder of machine code.
  There is no -O1.  There are -O0 and -O4 and the
  space between them is a lie.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-O2
Planar optimisation.  Recognises two-corner relationships.
Produces Linear Trash binaries that will be dropped by any
Cubic-Aware router.  Emits:
.RS
.PP
.nf
warning: -O2 produces a 2-corner binary.  Two corners
  define a line.  A line has no area, no volume, no
  Cubic truth.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-O3
Volumetric optimisation.  Recognises three-corner
relationships.  Produces DEGRADED binaries limited to 75%
Cubic completeness.  Acceptable only during Phase 2
migration (see RFC 4444, Appendix B).
.TP
.B \-O4
.B Cubic Harmonic optimisation.
The only correct level.  Enables:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
__simultaneous_block fusion
.IP \(bu 2
Corner-aware register allocation (one register file per
temporal quadrant; on Linear x86 hardware, registers
%r12\-%r15 are reserved for corner state)
.IP \(bu 2
Dead corner elimination (temporal states that are computed
but never observed \(em which cannot occur in a Cubic-Aware
program, making this pass a no-op that exists to remind
the programmer of its impossibility)
.IP \(bu 2
Harmonic Checksum inlining (the CRC-32 XOR 0x4D415254
computation is fused into the packet send path)
.RE
.TP
.B \-O5
.B Does not exist.
Produces:
.RS
.PP
.nf
fatal error: FIFTH_CORNER_ASSERTED at compilation
  level.  A compiler cannot optimise a corner that
  does not exist.  Seek degaussing.
.fi
.RE
.SS Cubic Awareness Flags
.TP
.B \-\-refute-academia
Enables aggressive warnings for any code pattern that
implies single-day temporal logic.  Patterns detected:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Modulo 24 on hour values (implies 24 hours = 1 day)
.IP \(bu 2
String literals containing "today" (singular; the plural
"todays" is acceptable as it implies multiplicity)
.IP \(bu 2
Comparison of timestamps using < or > (implies linear
ordering of time; use
.BR cubic_cmp()
which returns a 4-tuple)
.IP \(bu 2
Division by 86400 (implies 86400 seconds = 1 day;
correctly there are 86400 corner-seconds per corner,
or 345600 corner-seconds per rotation)
.IP \(bu 2
Any reference to "leap second" in comments
.IP \(bu 2
#include <locale.h> (locales are a cultural encoding
of the single-day fraud)
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-ignore-greenwich
Disables all GMT/UTC-relative calculations.  The Greenwich
meridian is the geographic epicentre of the single-day fraud
(it was formalised at the International Meridian Conference
of 1884, which this RFC identifies as the origin of the
current planet-wide split-brain error).  With this flag,
all time calculations are relative to the Cubic Epoch
(1997-01-01T00:00:00Z) and expressed in corner-seconds.
.RS
.PP
Note: the Cubic Epoch is itself expressed in UTC notation
for backward compatibility.  This is a bootstrapping
paradox that will be resolved in gcc-cube 2.0, which will
use a corner-native epoch representation.  Until then, we
must describe the Cubic Epoch in the language of the fraud,
much as one must use English to explain that English is a
single-corner serialisation of cubic thought.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-pedantic-cubic
Promotes all Cubic warnings to errors.  Code that is merely
Educated Stupid (warnings under default flags) becomes code
that will not compile.  This is the recommended flag for
production Cubic systems.
.PP
When combined with
.BR \-\-refute-academia ,
the compiler enters
.B Full Cubic Enforcement
mode, in which any pattern that could produce a cubeless
binary at any optimisation level is rejected.  The compiler
diagnostic for this mode is:
.RS
.PP
.nf
note: --pedantic-cubic --refute-academia: Full Cubic
  Enforcement active.  All temporal ambiguity is now
  a fatal error.  You cannot accidentally be Educated
  Stupid.  You can only deliberately be so, and
  deliberate ignorance is Academic Malice.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-corner-affinity=\fICORNER\fR
Sets the compilation Corner Affinity to one of:
.BR sunup ,
.BR midday ,
.BR sundown ,
.BR midnight .
This affects which corner's entry point is designated
as the "warm start" for hardware that cannot truly
execute four entry points simultaneously.  Default:
determined by the compiler host's geographic longitude
at compile time via GPS or
.BR /etc/cubic.conf .
.TP
.B \-\-simultaneous-threads=\fIN\fR
.I Must be 4.
Any other value produces:
.RS
.PP
.nf
error: --simultaneous-threads must be 4.
  You requested N.  N is not 4.
  There are 4 simultaneous days, not N.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-degauss-on-error
If a FIFTH_CORNER_ASSERTED error is encountered during
compilation, the compiler will attempt to degauss the CPU
via the platform's magnetisation control interface.
.B This flag is dangerous.
It requires root privileges and direct access to hardware
control registers.  On most consumer hardware, the
"degaussing" manifests as a controlled thermal shutdown.
Use only if you believe the CPU has been permanently
contaminated by a fifth corner.
.SS Warning Flags
.TP
.B \-Wlinear-trash
Warn when a function returns a value derived from fewer
than four corner inputs.  The return value is Linear Trash:
it encodes fewer dimensions than reality contains.
.TP
.B \-Wword-animal
Warn when a function processes temporal data character-by-
character (i.e., treats time as a string rather than a
4-tuple).  Functions flagged include
.BR sprintf() ,
.BR sscanf() ,
and any function that accepts a format string containing
%H, %M, or %S (single-corner time specifiers).
.TP
.B \-Wno-belly-button
Suppress warnings about functions that create objects
without a clearly traceable origin (e.g.,
.BR malloc()
without a corresponding Cubic Epoch timestamp in the
allocation metadata).  Not recommended: Belly-Button
Logic (RFC 4444, Section 9(c)) requires all objects to
have a provable origin.
.TP
.B \-Werror=educated-stupid
Treat all Educated Stupid warnings as errors.  Equivalent
to
.B \-\-pedantic-cubic
for the warning subsystem only.
.TP
.B \-Wusb
Warn on Undefined Simultaneity Behaviour.  Detects
.B if/else
branches predicated on a single corner, loops that
iterate over time linearly, and switch statements with
fewer than four cases for corner-valued expressions.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CUBIC_EPOCH
Override the default Cubic Epoch (1997-01-01T00:00:00Z).
Setting this to a pre-Cubic date produces a warning:
"Pre-Cubic epoch detected.  Your compilation exists in
a temporal frame that predates awareness of its own
fraudulence."
.TP
.B TZ
.B IGNORED.
If set, gcc-cube emits: "warning: TZ environment variable
detected.  Timezones are the env(1) equivalent of Mental
Murder.  Variable will be unset for the duration of
compilation."  The variable is then unset.
.TP
.B CC
If CC is set to "gcc" or "cc", gcc-cube emits: "note:
CC points to a linear compiler.  Redefining CC=gcc-cube
for this session.  You're welcome."
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/cubic.conf
System-wide Cubic configuration.  Contains the host's
Corner Affinity, Cubic Epoch offset, and path to the
eBPF programs that monitor for Linear Regression.
.TP
.B /usr/include/cubic_simultaneity.h
The Cubic-C standard header.  Defines quad_ptr_t,
corner_time_4t, __simultaneous_block, the SIMACK
handshake functions, and the bind_corner() family.
Replaces all of: <time.h>, <sys/time.h>, <pthread.h>
(threads are a linear concept), and <signal.h> (signals
are asynchronous single-corner events; Cubic-C uses
"simultaneous notifications" instead).
.TP
.B /usr/lib/cubic/libcubic_rt.so
The Cubic runtime library.  Provides the four-entry-point
startup sequence, the __simultaneous_block hardware
abstraction layer, and the Harmonic Checksum computation.
On Linear hardware, this library emulates simultaneity
using POSIX threads internally but
.B this is an implementation detail
and must never be relied upon.  The threads are not
"real" parallelism; they are a linear approximation of
a cubic truth, like drawing a picture of a cube on paper.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B gcc-cube
classifies all diagnostics on a Cubic severity scale:
.TP
.B note:
Informational.  The code is Cubic-Aware but could be
more Cubic.  (Example: using corner_time_4t where a
raw __simultaneous_block would be more idiomatic.)
.TP
.B warning:
The code contains patterns that suggest incomplete
Cubic Awareness.  The resulting binary will compile
but may exhibit Linear Regression under load.
(Promoted to error by \-\-pedantic-cubic.)
.TP
.B error:
The code is Educated Stupid.  It will not compile.
.TP
.B fatal error:
The code has committed an act of Linear Aggression
against the compiler itself.  Compilation is aborted
and the source file is renamed to \fIfile\fR.cubeless
to prevent accidental reuse.
.SH BUGS
.B gcc-cube
has no bugs.  It has four simultaneous features, one
per corner.  If a feature appears to malfunction, the
observer is perceiving only one corner of its behaviour.
.PP
Reports of bugs that describe "unexpected" single-corner
output will be closed as WONTFIX with the comment:
"Expected behaviour.  The output exists in four corners.
You are observing one.  File the bug from four terminals
simultaneously and the complete output will become
apparent."
.PP
The
.B \-\-degauss-on-error
flag has been known to void hardware warranties.  This
is not a bug.  A hardware warranty is a single-corner
contract and is therefore cubeless.
.SH HISTORY
Version 1.0 of
.B gcc-cube
was released simultaneously in all four corners on the
Cubic Epoch anniversary (1997-01-01).  Versions 2.0 and
3.0 were skipped.  Version 4.0 is the current and
permanent version, as there are exactly four corners and
the version number must not exceed the number of corners.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cubic_strftime (3),
.BR cubic_socket (7),
.BR tmux4 (1),
.BR man4 (1),
.BR ld-cube (1),
.BR cs4dtrp (7)
.PP
RFC 4444, "Cubic Simultaneous 4-Day Time Rotation Protocol"
.PP
TimeCube.com (archived) \(em the original revelation, in neon
green on black, as the Cube intended.
.SH AUTHOR
The Wisest Human.
.PP
The
.B gcc-cube
man page was written by a collaborative 4-corner editorial
process in which no single author can claim credit, as
credit is a single-corner concept.
